FAQ
Search for answers
Search for answers...
Meal Plan FAQs
 Meal Plan Sign Up, Status & Changes
 How do I purchase a Meal Plan?
You can purchase a meal plan through the link below. Plans may be adjusted until the drop/add date for each semester (found on the Notable Dates page). Charges and refunds appear on the ONE.UF account.
Sign Up
 Where can I see what meal plan I have signed up for?
Go the GATOROne portal, select Meal Plan sign up and you will see your Meal Plan selection for current and future terms. You can also click ‘Profile” under the GATOROne menu. This will show you all of the meal plan you had per each term.
GATOROne Portal
 Can I upgrade/downgrade my Meal Plan?
You can upgrade your meal plan at any time. Downgrades can only be done until the end of the meal plan grace period as listed on our Notable Dates page. Please click the link below for instructions on how to change your meal plan.
Change Instructions
 Can I cancel my Meal Plan?
You may only cancel your plan until the end of the meal plan grace period as listed on our Notable Dates page. Please click the link below for instructions on how to cancel your meal plan.
Cancel Instructions
 How do I add more Flex?
You can add a minimum of $15 in Flex through Transact eAccounts (link below).
Transact eAccounts
 Where do I see my Meal Swipe/Flex balance?
Login to the GATORONE Management Portal below or download the Transact eAccounts app.
GATORONE Management Portal
 Introduction to Meal Plans
 ‌How do Meal Plans Work?
With a Meal Plan, a student's ID works like a debit card for dining. Every Meal Plan has a certain amount of Meal Swipes and/or Flex. When swiped, the Meal Swipes or Flex are automatically deducted from the plan. Meal Swipes and Retail Equivalency Swipes reset on Friday morning.

 Who can get a Meal Plan?
Any current UF student, faculty or staff. Students living in on-campus housing are only eligible to purchase the Residential plans. Commuter students may choose any of the Commuter or Residential plans!

 What are Meal Swipes?
Meal Swipes grant access to the Food Hall at Gator Corner and the Eatery at Broward Hall. Meal swipes can be used once every 45 minutes. Each swipe is deducted from your weekly or semester balance. Meal swipes reset around 2 a.m. every Sunday morning.

 What is Flex?
Flex are dining dollars loaded onto your GATORONE account and are accepted at ALL Florida Fresh Dining locations & are TAX FREE. Unused flex rolls over from Summer A to Summer B to Fall to Spring as long as you are continuously signed up for a meal plan for each consecutive semester. Unused flex is added the next business day after the end of grace period. See notable dates for current semester dates. All unused flex is forfeited at the end of each spring semester. Meal swipes do not roll over and must be used during the semester in which it was purchased.

 What is Retail Equivalency?
Retail Equivalency is a Meal Swipe that can be redeemed for $7.50 in spending power at over 25 Florida Fresh Dining locations. Each Retail Equivalency swipe is deducted from your Meal Swipe count. The 45-minute restriction for meal swipes applies to Retail Equivalency as well. The weekly Retail Swipes allocation resets every Sunday at 2:00 AM. Find out more by clicking the link below.
Retail Equivalency
 What are Bonus Meals?
Bonus Meals can be used to bring guests into the dining halls or give students extra meal swipes throughout the semester. They are automatically applied after your first Meal Swipe Bonus Meals are applied to the student account AFTER the drop/add date each semester. Click the link below to find out more.
Bonus Meals
 What is the Super Gator 7-Day Unlimited Plan?
It is a Meal Plan that provides unlimited Meal Swipes to the dining halls, 300 Flex, 125 Mobile Order app credit, 7 Retail Equivalencies per week, 15 bonus meals and 2 gift baskets. Once you use a Meal Swipe, there is a 45 minute window before you can use a Meal Swipe again.

 What are the 5-Day & 7-Day Unlimited Plans?
The 5-Day Unlimited Plan provides unlimited Meal Swipes 5 days a week (Monday - Friday) to the dining halls, 270 Flex, 3 Retail Equivalencies per week and 5 bonus meals. Once you use a Meal Swipe, there is a 45 minute window before you can use a Meal Swipe again. The 7-Day Unlimited Plan provides unlimited Meal Swipes 7 days a week to the dining halls, 250 Flex, 100 Mobile Order app credit, 4 Retail Equivalencies per week and 10 bonus meals. Once you use a Meal Swipe, there is a 45 minute window before you can use a Meal Swipe again.

 What is the Upperclassmen 125 Plan?
The Upperclassmen 125 Plan provides 125 Meal Swipes to the dining halls per semester, no Flex requirement, 2 Retail Equivalencies per week and 3 bonus meals. Once you use a Meal Swipe, there is a 45 minute window before you can use a Meal Swipe again.

 What are Block Plans?
Block Plans have a fixed number of Swipes for the entire semester. For example, with a Block 125, you have 125 Meal Swipes to use throughout the semester in the dining halls. Block plans may come with a preset amount of Flex, and Flex may be added to any Block Plan.

 What are Flex Only Plans?
Flex Only plans are another option for Commuters that comes with a preset amount of Flex and features bonus Transact Mobile Order Credit!

 What is Transact Mobile Order Credit?
Transact Mobile Credit is "money" that is stored in our Transact Mobile app that can be used to purchase a meal at any of our on campus dining retail locations, including but not limited to Chick-Fil-A, Panda Express, Sonic, Subway, etc. These are bonus funds and can only be reloaded by Florida Fresh Dining.

 When is my Meal Plan active?
 Please visit our Notable Dates page for details
Notable Dates
 Summer A 2026
May 11, 2026 - June 18, 2026

 Summer B 2026
June 25, 2026 - August 7, 2026

 Fall 2026
August 15, 2026 - December 11, 2026

 Spring 2027
January 9, 2027 - April 30, 2027

 More about Meal Plans
 What if I run out of Flex?
You can recharge your Flex on the GATORONE Management Portal below.
GATORONE Management Portal
 If I switch to a Greek Meal Plan, will I receive a refund?
Yes. The student account will be refunded based on the number of days the Meal Plan has been active. The Greek Meal Plan will be added as a new plan, and the previous plan's Swipes and Flex will not count towards the balance of the new Greek Meal Plan.
Greek Plans
 Why do Meal Plans expire?
Our on-campus dining locations do not receive "street traffic" like off-campus restaurants. Because of this, our dining options are primarily open for the benefit of Meal Plan holders. The number of Meal Swipes/Flex purchased in a semester is integral in planning staffing models, hours of operation, menus, and production ordering. In this way, Meal Plans are what keep our dining locations operational!

 Are Residential plans a two semester commitment if I am studying abroad in the Fall or Spring?
Only those students who are no longer enrolled at the University (graduates, transfers, withdrawals) in the spring or those students who are studying abroad are exempt from the 2-semester commitment.

 How do I switch to a Greek Meal Plan?
Students may switch to a Greek Plan by the deadline as specified on the Greek Meal Plans page. This is done by emailing dining@bsd.ufl.edu. You must provide your proof of affiliation (bid letter), UFID, and new Meal Plan selection.
Greek Meal Plans
 What are the ‌benefits of Flex?
You don't have to pay tax on food and beverages if you use Flex on campus. Great for budgeting funds specifically for dining on campus. Conveniently located on the GATORONE ID. It cannot be overdrawn, and it can be refilled at any time.

 Which Meal Plan should I get?
 Commuter Students
For students who wish to visit the dining halls roughly 6 times a week, we recommend a Block 100 Plan. For students who wish to visit the dining halls more than 6 times a week, we recommend purchasing the Block 125 or a Residential Plan. For students who do not wish to visit the dining halls as often, we recommend a Flex Only plan.

 Residential Students
For students living on campus in a UF residence hall, we recommend the Super Gator 7-Day Unlimited Plan. This ensures that students will have access to as many meals as they need without having to budget.

 Should I start low and go higher later?
Yes, if you feel like you won't be able to use up the Meal Swipes/Flex, you should start with a lower plan. You can always upgrade later if needed.

 Am I required to purchase a Meal Plan?
You are not required to get a Meal Plan. Meal Plans are an exciting way to meet new friends and build community. They are offered to help students enjoy full nutritious meals without worry.

 Will my Meal Plan roll over?
Meal Swipes expire at the end of each semester and do not rollover to the following semester. For Fall Commuter Meal Plans, your Flex will expire at the end of the semester UNLESS you purchase a Spring Meal Plan. For Fall Residential Meal Plans, your Flex will NOT expire at the end of the Fall semester. Unused Flex will carry over to the Spring semester and will be added to your Spring Flex balance. All Flex expire at the end of the Spring semester and do not rollover to the Summer/Fall semesters. Beginning with Summer A 2026, unused flex rolls over from Summer A to Summer B to Fall to Spring as long as you are continuously signed up for a meal plan for each consecutive semester. All unused Flex is forfeited at the end of each spring semester.

 What is a Meal Swipe valued at?
The door rate at the dining halls is $10.50 for breakfast, $13.00 for lunch, and $13.50 for dinner plus tax. If you purchase a Super Gator 7-Day Unlimited Plan, each Swipe costs you approximately $9.

 If I am graduating, transferring, or withdrawing by the end of the semester, are the Residential plans a two semester commitment?
Only those students who are no longer enrolled at the University (graduates, transfers, withdrawals) in the spring or those students who are studying abroad are exempt from the 2-semester commitment.

 If I am on an Unlimited Plan, how many times can I visit the residential dining halls?
You can come as many times a day you want, just remember there has to be a 45 minute gap between Swipes.

 How do taxes work with Meal Plans?
Taxes are included with the purchase of a meal plan. Flex attached to a meal plan are tax free. In accordance with Florida Law, there are items in the markets that are tax free as well.

 General Questions
 Where can I use Declining Balance?
Declining Balance is accepted at all Florida Fresh Dining locations.

 Where can I use Gator Bucks?
Gator Bucks can be used at The Bookstore and Vending Machines. Gator Bucks cannot be used in Dining. Flex and Declining Balance are used for dining.

 What are the Dining Hall Door Rates?
 Breakfast
$10.50 plus taxes

 Lunch
$13.00 plus taxes

 Dinner
$13.50 plus taxes

 What is the door rate at Arredondo Cafe?
$15.00 + 7.5% taxes

 When do the dining halls serve breakfast/lunch/dinner?
 Broward
𝐁𝐫𝐞𝐚𝐤𝐟𝐚𝐬𝐭: 7:00 AM to 11:00 AM. 𝐋𝐮𝐧𝐜𝐡: 11:00 AM to 5:00 PM.  𝐃𝐢𝐧𝐧𝐞𝐫: 5:00 PM to 9:00 PM.

 Gator
𝐁𝐫𝐞𝐚𝐤𝐟𝐚𝐬𝐭: 7:00 AM to 11:00 AM 𝐋𝐮𝐧𝐜𝐡: 11:00 AM to 5:00 PM  𝐃𝐢𝐧𝐧𝐞𝐫: 5:00 PM to 9:00 PM

 Do the Dining Halls offer To-Go?
We offer Ozzi boxes, which is a simple way to reduce single-use plastics and lessen our carbon footprint. These boxes are available in the Eatery at Broward Hall and the Food Hall Gator Corner. For every Ozzi box purchased, Florida Fresh Dining will donate $5 to UF's on-campus food pantry, Field and Fork. For more information about our Ozzi boxes, please click the link below.
Ozzi Box
 Is Cash accepted on campus?
All dining locations on campus are completely cashless. Guests are welcome to pay using their meal plan, Declining Balance, Credit or Debit. For those wishing to use cash, ReadyCard machines are available at Reitz Union, 1st Floor and Sun Terrace at the Health Science Center, allowing you to load cash onto a prepaid debit card. The car works as a regular debit card and can be used anywhere in the US! Click the link below for more information.
Cashless
 Are Gift Cards accepted on campus?
At this time, only Starbucks locations can accept gift cards on campus.

 Can I use mobile apps for National Brands to order?
Mobile ordering is available through Transact Mobile App. There is no additional fee charged for using the app. The Starbucks Mobile App may be used on campus to place orders or utilize the Starbucks rewards program.
Transact Mobile App
 What do I do if I my GATORONE is not working?
Please contact GATORONE services at gator1card@bsd.ufl.edu or 352-392-8343
Email
 What is the difference between Gator Bucks, Flex and Declining Balance?
 Flex
Flex is a tax-free payment option that is accepted at all food locations on campus. Flex is included with all Florida Fresh Dining meal plans. Flex rolls from fall to spring with the purchase of a spring meal plan, but expires at the end of the fall semester if you do not purchase a spring plan. Flex can be reloaded through the GATORONE management portal or via transact e-accounts, with a minimum $15 deposit. Starting Summer 2026, All flex rolls over from Summer A to Summer B to Fall to Spring, provided you have an active meal plan consecutively for all semesters. If not, it expires when your meal plan ends. All Flex expires at the end of the Spring semester.

 Declining Balance
Both Flex and Declining Balance are funds on your GATORONE that work just like a debit account for food. They are accepted at all food locations on campus. Declining Balance funds can be added at any time with a minimum deposit of $15 and max of $2,500. These funds never expire and will continue to roll over until you graduate, withdraw, or transfer from UF, at which point you can request a refund. However, unlike Flex, 𝐩𝐮𝐫𝐜𝐡𝐚𝐬𝐞𝐬 𝐦𝐚𝐝𝐞 𝐰𝐢𝐭𝐡 𝐃𝐞𝐜𝐥𝐢𝐧𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐁𝐚𝐥𝐚𝐧𝐜𝐞 𝐚𝐫𝐞 𝐭𝐚𝐱𝐞𝐝.

 Gator Bucks
Gator Bucks is a combination of your Bookstore Debit and/or Vending accounts. These funds can now be used at any of our Bookstore locations or at snack/beverage vending machines. The funds never expire and refund requests are permitted upon separation from the University. You 𝐂𝐀𝐍𝐍𝐎𝐓 use your Gator Bucks accounts for purchasing foods at the residential dining halls, convenience stores, or retail locations.

 What if I have special dietary needs or food allergies?
We have a 'Delicious Without' station in the Eatery at Broward Hall and the Food Hall at Gator Corner where we avoid the 9 most common dietary allergens & gluten. You can also talk to our chefs, and reach out to our Campus Dietitian, Andrew Roades with any questions. You can schedule an appointment with Andrew to meet virtually.
Nutrition
 Where can I follow your social media?
 Twitter
@FLFreshDine
Twitter
 Instagram/Facebook
@floridafresh.dining
Instagram
 How can I submit my Feedback?
 Text 2 Chat
 The Eatery at Broward
Text us at (352) 644-9143

 Meal Plan and General Questions
Text us at (352) 618-3859

 Food Hall at Gator Corner
Text us at (352) 496-8808

 General Feedback
Please use the link below.
Feedback
 How do I contact Florida Fresh Dining?
𝐓𝐞𝐱𝐭: (352) 618-3859 | 𝐂𝐚𝐥𝐥: (352) 392-9787

 How can I contact the UF Meal Plan Office?
𝐄𝐦𝐚𝐢𝐥: dining@bsd.ufl.edu | 𝐂𝐚𝐥𝐥: (352) 392-0306
Email
Student Support
 Purchase a Meal Plan
You can purchase a Meal Plan by following the link below! Please note that Meal Plans are automatically charged to the student account and placed on the same fee bill as tuition, housing, etc.
Purchase a Meal Plan
 Check My Meal Plan Balance
You can check your Meal Plan balance on the Transact eAccounts app or by logging into the GATORONE Management Portal below.
GATORONE Management Portal
 Add More Flex
You can add a minimum of $15 Flex at any time by logging into the GATORONE Management Portal! Please note that Flex purchased through e-accounts must be charged to a credit/debit card and cannot be charged to the student account.
GATORONE Management Portal
 Upgrade My Meal Plan
Students can always upgrade their Meal Plan throughout the semester. To upgrade your plan, log into your student Meal Plan portal below.
Upgrade My Meal Plan
 Downgrade / Cancel My Meal Plan
Students can downgrade/cancel their Meal Plan in accordance with the grace period deadlines mentioned in the Notable Dates page. To downgrade/cancel your plan, log into your student Meal Plan portal below.
Downgrade / Cancel Meal Plan
 Food Allergies/Special Diets
 Connect with our Dietitian
You can schedule a virtual meeting with our Registered Dietitian, Andrew Roades, via his Calendly link on the Nutrition page.
Nutrition Page
 Our Accommodations and Practices
Florida Fresh Dining takes food allergies and dietary restrictions very seriously and strive to ensure that every student feels comfortable and confident when dining on campus. Click on the link below to learn about our food allergy/special diet practices.
Nutrition
 Gluten Allergy
Florida Fresh Dining takes food allergies very seriously! We want to assure that all students feel safe and comfortable while dining on campus. To accommodate, our dining halls offer an "Allergen Free" zone located at the Delicious Without station. This station will only serve items that are made without any of the major allergens, including gluten. Students can also utilize our "Avoiding Gluten" icon on our digital menus to find delicious options that are made without gluten-containing ingredients. Please note that while we will make every effort to avoid cross-contamination, our facilities are not "gluten-free".
Food Allergy / Special Diets
 Peanut / Tree Nut Allergy
Florida Fresh Dining takes food allergies very seriously. We want to help all students with food allergies manage their diets, eat safely, and feel comfortable with the foods we serve. To make sure we handle food properly and prevent cross-contact, we train our entire staff on food safety. To accommodate allergies, our dining halls offer an "allergen-free" zone located at the Delicious Without station. Menu items served at this station are not made with any of the major allergens, including peanuts and tree nuts. Please note: while our dining halls do not use peanut/tree nuts as active ingredients in menu items (including peanut oil), we are not a "nut-free" facility. Some products may be sourced from vendors that handle peanuts/tree nuts. Any items that do contain nuts (such as peanut butter) will be clearly labeled. Click on the link below to learn more about our safety practices.
Nutrition
 Vegan / Vegetarian
We offer a wide variety of plant-based menu items at our dining halls and retail locations across campus! These can be identified by our Vegan and Vegetarian dietary icons located on our digital menu. Learn more about our dietary icons by following the link below.
Nutrition
 Text Our Team!
We highly encourage students with dietary allergies/restrictions to utilize our Text-2-Chat program at (352)-618-3859. This program allows you to directly text your questions/concerns/requests to the executive chef in the location. They can then respond quickly with answers, confirmations, and suggestions to help you better navigate our on-campus options! Click on the link below to fill out your special dietary needs form.
Let us know about your dietary needs
 Problems with my Meal Plan
 My Balance is Not Updated
 I signed up less than 15 minutes ago
The meal plan should be activated within 15 minutes. Please wait for a while and check your balance again.
Transact eAccounts
 I signed up more than 15 minutes ago
Thank you for reaching out. Please fill out the information below so we can assist you.
My balance is not updating *

Confirm
Your First and Last Name *
Your Student UFID *
Your UF Email Address *
Please describe the problem you are having with your Meal Plan, including when it was purchased. *
Submit
 My GATORONE ID Does Not Work
 My ID DOES work for other university facilities (dorms, rec, etc.)
Thank you for reaching out. If your GATORONE ID does not work at our dining locations but does work at other university facilities such as the rec center, etc., then please fill out the information below and we will assist you.
My GATORONE ID does not work for my Meal Plan *

Confirm
Your First and Last Name *
Your Student UFID *
Your UF Email *
Please describe the problem you are having with your GATORONE ID. Include what dining locations you have tried utilizing it at. *
Submit
 My ID DOES NOT work for other university facilities (dorms, rec, etc.)
If your GATORONE ID does not work at other university facilities (such as the rec center, etc.), please reach out to the GATORONE office for a replacement at gator1card@bsd.ufl.edu or 352-392-8343
Email
 Charge Dispute
If you feel that you were mistakenly charged at one of our locations on campus, please fill out the information below and we can assist.
I have a charge dispute *

Confirm
Your First and Last Name *
Your Student UFID *
Your UF Email *
What day and time did this charge occur? *
Was this purchase done through Transact Mobile Ordering or in-person in a retail/dining location? *

Transact Mobile Ordering

In-person
What tender did you use? *

Retail Equivalency

Flex

Debit / Credit

Mobile Order Credit
Please describe the mistaken charge. Include the charge price and the dining location in question. *
Submit
 Dining Refund Form
This is another option to let us know of your charge issues directly. Click on the link below to fill the Dining Refund Form
Dining Refund Form
 Text Line
 General or Meal Plan Questions
Please click the link below (on mobile) or text us at (352) 618-3859.
Text Us
 Food Hall at Gator Corner
Please click the link below (on mobile) or text us at (352) 496-8808.
Text Us
 The Eatery at Broward
Please click the link below (on mobile) or text us at (352) 644-9143.
Text Us
 Lost GATORONE ID
Students should mark it as lost in the GATORONE Management Portal or in the account app immediately and then submit a request for a replacement.
GATORONE Management Portal
 Submit Feedback
We want to hear about your on-campus dining experiences! Submit a feedback form through our website to let us know how we're doing and how we can improve!
Feedback Form
Financial Questions
 Does financial aid cover the cost of my meal plan?
Certain financial aid programs will cover the cost of your meal plan (you may choose any meal plan). Declining Balance funds may be purchased using Financial Aid.

 When will the charge for meal plan show up on my account?
The charges get generally posted 2 weeks before the semester starts. You have an option during the grace period to change the meal plan. These changes will get reflected in your ONE.UF bursar account within 1-2 business days.

 I withdrew from UF mid-semester, how do I request a refund?
Please make sure you contact us as soon as possible by emailing dining@bsd.ufl.edu or at 352-392-0306. You will be charged for usage which is based on number of days meal plan was active plus any Flex use, and then refunded the remainder.
Email
 Can I pay for a Meal Plan with a Florida Prepaid Scholarship?
All Meal Pla﻿ns are eligible for funding from all Florida Pre-Paid Scholarship Programs as a part of Board funds.

 If I switch to a Greek Meal Plan, will I receive a refund?
Yes. The student account will be refunded based on the number of days the meal plan has been active. The Greek Meal Plan will be added as a new plan, and the previous plan's Swipes and Flex will not count towards the balance of the new Greek Meal Plan.
Greek Plans
 What do I need to do if my meal plan is covered by State of Florida (Vocational Rehab, Division of Blind Services, etc.)?
Email us at dining@bsd.ufl.edu, so we can help you directly. Do not select your meal plan on the portal as that will place a charge on your student account.
Email
Faculty, Staff and Guests Support
 Hours of Operation
Dining halls: 𝐁𝐫𝐞𝐚𝐤𝐟𝐚𝐬𝐭: 7:00 AM to 11:00 AM 𝐋𝐮𝐧𝐜𝐡: 11:00 AM to 5:00 PM  𝐃𝐢𝐧𝐧𝐞𝐫: 5:00 PM to 9:00 PM For other locations, find our most up-to-date hours of operation by following the link below!
Hours of Operation
 Dining Locations
Find our full campus dining location list by following the link below!
Campus Dining Locations
 Catering
Looking to have your next event catered? We can help! Check out our catering page by following the link below.
Catering
 Visiting Group - Meal Request Form
Go Gators! If you are representing an organization or group and would like to submit a Meal Request form, please click on the link below and fill out the form.
Palm and Pine - Visiting Groups
 Submit Feedback
We want to hear about your on-campus dining experiences! Submit a feedback form to let our team know how we're doing and how we can improve.
Feedback Form
University of Florida Footer
University of Florida Dining Services logo
University of Florida

245 Gale Lemerand Drive - Gate 4, Room #149,

Gainesville, Florida

(352) 392-9787

dining@bsd.ufl.edu

Main Menu
Home
What's On The Menu?
Events
Special Offers
FAQ
Staff
Follow Us
Facebook
Instagram